when it comes down to the approach in
teaching a lesson a teachers pedagogy
and lesson may be teacher-centered
or student-centered or a mixture of the
two this is a table to highlight the
difference between the two created by
Yukon a teacher centered approach is
based on a behaviorist approach on
learning knowledge is being transmitted
from the seat of the students students
are passively receiving information
emphasis is on acquisition of knowledge
outside the contexts in which it will be
used teachers role is to be primary
information giver and primary evaluator
teaching and assessing are separate
assessment is used to monitor learning
emphasis is on the right answers desired
learning is assessed indirectly through
the use of objectively scored tests
focus is on a single discipline culture
is competitive and individualistic and
only students are viewed as learners
of course teacher directed learning you
know it allows you to get on with things
and you know go from one lesson to the
next so on and so on
but you run the risk of your lessons not
being very engaging especially because
it completely relies on you as the
teacher and your personal skills and
your personality you know sorry your
personable skills as well so you know
teacher directed learning if you've
you've got a very dry style or you know
you're you're not very expressive or
expensive you're not going to be very
engaging for the students I and the same
goes with the content that you're
choosing if you're the if you're doing
teacher directed learning and you're
choosing all the activities you're
choosing all the content you're choosing
all of that material then you want to
hope that you've done your research and
at least found that what the students
interests are themselves otherwise you
run a great risk of really just losing
the students before you even begin
having said that you know that there are
the advantages in that you can you can
and I think you need you need to sort of
build that trust in that relationship to
your students with you in your class so
that they can switch from motor mode
they know that okay if they're
transitioning from here to here they
might need to listen to the teacher
follow the instructions know when to
switch on and then let me be listening
for those introductions specifically and
other times they know that they don't
necessarily have to be sort of you know
keyed up to that and for that they can
sort of get sort of lost in their own
sort of you know group discussions or
pain discussions and less those things
to not have to be from there that's why
it's it's also helpful if you've got
some little tricks as well little
routine to a little transitional aids
that you can use to help cue them into
that so that you're not always having to
use stern method but you might have like
a signal or
Robel or little grime that you might say
you know 1 2 3 ice to me and so they're
not always having to listen out but
those are all triggers they they they
hear that and they might not be
specifically listening for it but they
can it switches on a reaction to them
and if you but that takes practice and
then routine good a few weeks to give
them sort of the student-centered
approach comes mainly from a
constructivist approach the students are
knowledge seekers and construct
knowledge through gathering and
synthesizing information and integrating
it with the general skills of inquiry
communication critical thinking
problem-solving and so on students are
actively involved emphasis is on the
communicating and using knowledge
effectively to address enduring and
emerging issues and problems in
real-life contexts desired learning is
assessed directly through papers
projects performances and portfolios the
approach is compatible with
interdisciplinary investigation culture
is cooperative collaborative and
supportive and the teacher and the
students learn together
my experience of student-centered
learning is that it's a it's a great way
to engage the students but you have to
be careful in that you have to plan it
very well that they might sound like
student-centered teaching is very sort
of out there an airy-fairy and and you
know you it's not very structured but
almost in the opposite you have to have
to have a very clever way of structuring
the work in such a way that the students
feel free and they feel that they're
getting a lot of input the debate
between student-centered versus teacher
centered is prominent in the education
system however they both have their
strengths and weaknesses and can be
employed in effective ways in two
different times of your program one way
to tell which style is more effective
for the lesson is to ask prior to the
lesson what will be happening and what
you hope to achieve for lessons that
introduce a particular skill or lay a
foundation for future thinking your
students will benefit from a teacher
centered approach as you can deliver the
new information explicitly whilst
gathering students prior knowledge on
the topic at hand for lessons that allow
students to build on their skills and
develop their understanding of a topic
they are learning about a
student-centered approach may be
effective this is because students are
able to be actively involved in their
learning and approach the lesson in a
collaboratively cooperatively and
supportive manner with their peers
students engage in and experimenting and
exploring instead of the teacher
delivering the information to the
students are learning in a social
context students can build on their
skills and understanding and use
different methods that may not have been
available if the lesson was teacher
centered student-centered learning
requires us to understand what is
happening in the classroom from the
students point of view and takes into
account the experience and objectives of
the students
okay well I guess any style of teaching
that you use and any any group of
students that you're going to have are
going to present problems and I think
most teaching styles are never all
student-centered or teacher centered and
I think that's because of the nature of
the difficulties that you're going to
face with either of those two extremes
and I think that's why most teachers and
most teaching styles are a blend of the
two and they feel that they're making
the decisions but you have to you have
to direct it yourself you have to by the
choices that you give them by the tasks
that you set that might have quite a lot
of freedom in it but they're just by the
nature of the task itself
it helps narrow down what the options
that the students are going to have so
you want to give them the impression and
the feeling that they are making the
choices themselves but you need to
really be thinking and trying to be five
steps ahead and thinking of all the
contingencies that can come about
because of the choices that you're
giving and I think that's probably the
biggest hurdle of student centered
learning is it's very expensive you have
to really think of all the possibilities
no x y&z rather than just if I teach
this this will happen yeah you know you
have to be really prepared it takes my
thing extra preparation to achieve them
and I think that's why it's probably the
less seen of the two styles I guess or
the two extremes